# Opposing roles of hepatic stellate cell subpopulations in hepatocarcinogenesis
This repository hosts the codes and data for the paper "Opposing roles of hepatic stellate cell subpopulations in hepatocarcinogenesis" [Nature 610, pp356–365 (2022)](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-022-05289-6)


Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the main type of liver cancer and the fourth leading cause of cancer mortality worldwide. It develops almost exclusively in patients with chronic liver disease and advanced fibrosis. We analyzed the main liver fibroblstats, the hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), during hepatocarcinogenesis. Analyses of mouse and human HSC subpopulations by single-cell/nucleus RNA sequencing together with experimental studies revealed the dual functions of HSCs in hepatocarcinogenesis. Cytokine-producing HSCs (cyHSCs) protected against hepatocyte death and HCC development. Myofibroblastic HSCs (myHSCs) promoted proliferation and tumour development through increased stiffness and TAZ activation in pretumoural hepatocytes and through activation of DDR1 in established tumours.

### Data details
The data used in the study are in GEO with the details given in the paper. For the snRNA-seq data of human samples, CellBender was used to denoise the counts data. The CellBender filtered raw counts of the human data used in the study (generated by us and from literature) can be found at this [Figshare page](https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/Opposing_roles_of_hepatic_stellate_cell_subpopulations_in_hepatocarcinogenesis/21424608).


